docs/src/index.rst, before:

Welcome to KubeInit's documentation!
====================================

KubeInit provides Ansible playbooks and roles for the deployment
and configuration of multiple Kubernetes distributions.

Source code
~~~~~~~~~~~

The source code of this upstream project is hosted at
GitHub's `kubeinit repositories <https://github.com/kubeinit/kubeinit/>`_.

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

First thing first, thank you to all KubeInit's contributors.

..  ghcontributors:: kubeinit/kubeinit
    :limit: 200
    :order: DESC
    :exclude: kubeinit-bot,sphinx


Mission
~~~~~~~

KubeInit's mission is to have a fully automated way to deploy in a single command a curated list of
prescribed architectures based on the following principles **(G.I.V.E.)**.

.. raw:: html

    <p><span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 200%;color: #000;">G</span>uide new and experienced users and contributors to deploy quickly and easily Kubernetes clusters based on a set of prescribed architectures.</p>

    <p><span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 200%;color: #000;">I</span>ncentivate new users and contributors to overcoming the learning curve to successfully deploy complex Kubernetes scenarios.</p>

    <p><span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 200%;color: #000;">V</span>erify automatically that the defined prescribed architectures work seamlessly.</p>

    <p><span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 200%;color: #000;">E</span>ngage with the upstream community for giving and receiving feedback, and cross-pollination to spark and amplify creativity, serendipity, and interdisciplinary friction.</p>

Content
~~~~~~~

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   contributing
   installation
   usage
   architecture
   roles
   modules
   howtos_and_presentations
   inventory_diagrams
   playbook_diagrams
   supporters
   changelog
   notice

Commit message:

docs: refator docs
This commit refactors the docs
to have a more streamlined view
of the content we will like to describe.

docs/src/index.rst, after:

Welcome to KubeInit's documentation!
====================================

KubeInit provides Ansible playbooks and roles for the deployment
and configuration of multiple Kubernetes distributions.

Community
~~~~~~~~~

The `source code of Kubeinit <https://github.com/kubeinit/kubeinit>`_
is hosted on GitHub.

For issue reports please use the GitHub
`Kubeinit issue tracker <https://github.com/kubeinit/kubeinit/issues>`_.

To get help, feel free to also create an
`issue <https://github.com/kubeinit/kubeinit/issues>`_
on GitHub with your question.

For a more interactive chat, join the the channel
`#kubeinit <https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C01FKK19T0B>`_.

If you want to contribute to the project (code, docs, ...), please
refer to the `contributing docs <contributing.html>`_.

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

First thing first, thank you to all KubeInit's contributors.

..  ghcontributors:: kubeinit/kubeinit
    :limit: 200
    :order: DESC
    :exclude: kubeinit-bot,sphinx


Mission
~~~~~~~

KubeInit's mission is to have a fully automated way to deploy in a single command a curated list of
prescribed architectures based on the following principles **(G.I.V.E.)**.

.. raw:: html

    <p><span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 200%;color: #000;">G</span>uide new and experienced users and contributors to deploy quickly and easily Kubernetes clusters based on a set of prescribed architectures.</p>

    <p><span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 200%;color: #000;">I</span>ncentivate new users and contributors to overcoming the learning curve to successfully deploy complex Kubernetes scenarios.</p>

    <p><span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 200%;color: #000;">V</span>erify automatically that the defined prescribed architectures work seamlessly.</p>

    <p><span style="font-weight: bold; font-size: 200%;color: #000;">E</span>ngage with the upstream community for giving and receiving feedback, and cross-pollination to spark and amplify creativity, serendipity, and interdisciplinary friction.</p>

Content
~~~~~~~

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   usage
   architecture
   contributing
   roles
   modules
   howtos_and_presentations
   inventory_diagrams
   playbook_diagrams
   supporters
   changelog
   notice
