docs/src/supporters.rst, before:

==========
Supporters
==========

This is a community driven Open Source project,
as such it needs support to keep it alive and
evolving.

This project is supported by a set
of individual companies by providing
some specific resources.

Docker
~~~~~~

.. container:: twocol

   .. container:: leftside

      .. figure:: _static/supporters/docker.svg
         :target: http://www.docker.com

   .. container:: rightside

      `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`_ is a set of platform as a service
      (PaaS) products that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software
      in packages called containers. Containers are isolated from one another
      and bundle their own software, libraries and configuration files; they
      can communicate with each other through well-defined channels. Because
      all of the containers share the services of a single operating system
      kernel, they use fewer resources than virtual machines.

      `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/>`_ is the world's largest repository
      of container images with an array of content sources including container
      community developers, open source projects and independent software vendors
      (ISV) building and distributing their code in containers. Users get access
      to free public repositories for storing and sharing images or can choose
      subscription plan for private repos.

      `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`_ provides to this project a user with a
      higher 'Docker Hub Rate Limiting', this helps us to effectively build and
      test the different deployment use cases that are supported. This means that
      all container images can be pulled and processed in a streamlined manner.

Google Cloud Platform
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. container:: twocol

   .. container:: leftside

      .. figure:: _static/supporters/gcp.svg
         :target: http://cloud.google.com

   .. container:: rightside

      `Google Cloud Platform <https://cloud.google.com/>`_ is a suite of cloud
      computing services that runs on the same infrastructure that Google uses
      internally for its end-user products, such as Google Search, Gmail, Google
      Drive, and YouTube.
      Alongside a set of management tools, it provides a series of modular
      cloud services including computing, data storage, data analytics,
      machine learning, infrastructure as a service, platform as a service,
      and serverless computing environments.

      `Google Cloud Platform <https://cloud.google.com/>`_ provides this project
      with a higher free tier to serve the CDN storage for the CI periodic and
      per pull request jobs.
      This allows the project to successfully store each job execution output
      for further review and debugging purposes. Also, to host a minimum hosted
      service to test this software platform.

..
    Red Hat
    ~~~~~~~

    .. container:: twocol

       .. container:: leftside

          .. figure:: _static/supporters/rht.svg
             :target: http://www.redhat.com

       .. container:: rightside

          `Red Hat <https://www.redhat.com/>`_ is the world's leading provider of
          enterprise open source solutions, using a community-powered approach
          to deliver high-performing Linux, cloud, container, and Kubernetes
          technologies. We help you standardize across environments,
          develop cloud-native applications, and integrate, automate, secure,
          and manage complex environments with award-winning support, training,
          and consulting services.

          Open hybrid cloud is Red Hat's recommended strategy for building,
          developing, and operating your hybrid landscape of applications,
          infrastructure, and processes. From your business-critical applications
          on Red Hat Enterprise Linux, to your container-based applications on
          Red Hat OpenShift, to all the middleware and automation in between,
          Red Hat gives you the tools you need to transform, innovate, and compete.

          `Red Hat <https://redhat.com/>`_ contributes to this project with HW resources
          to run the internal CI jobs and effectively test all the different use cases
          that are supported.

    IBM
    ~~~

    .. container:: twocol

       .. container:: leftside

          .. figure:: _static/supporters/ibm.svg
             :target: http://www.ibm.com

       .. container:: rightside

          `International Business Machines <https://www.ibm.com/>`_ (IBM), is a global
          technology company that provides hardware, software, cloud-based services
          and cognitive computing.
          Founded in 1911 following the merger of four companies in New
          York State by Charles Ranlett Flint, it was originally called
          Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company. It would be renamed to IBM in 1924.

          IBM's greatest asset is the IBMer. We believe our strength lies in the
          diversity of our employees. IBM encourages creative pursuits and passions
          outside of work, because when IBMers can explore their curiosity, it
          gives all of us a new outlook on the world and its possibilities for
          emerging tech. Together, IBM can drive progress through meaningful
          innovation and action.

          `IBM <https://www.ibm.com/>`_ contributes to this project with HW resources
          to run the internal CI jobs and effectively test all the different use cases
          that are supported.

Commit message:

docs: include Backblaze as a supporter
This commit includes backblaze as a supporter.

docs/src/supporters.rst, after:

==========
Supporters
==========

This is a community driven Open Source project,
as such it needs support to keep it alive and
evolving.

This project is supported by a set
of individual companies by providing
some specific resources.

Docker
~~~~~~

.. container:: twocol

   .. container:: leftside

      .. figure:: _static/supporters/docker.svg
         :target: http://www.docker.com

   .. container:: rightside

      `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`_ is a set of platform as a service
      (PaaS) products that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software
      in packages called containers. Containers are isolated from one another
      and bundle their own software, libraries and configuration files; they
      can communicate with each other through well-defined channels. Because
      all of the containers share the services of a single operating system
      kernel, they use fewer resources than virtual machines.

      `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/>`_ is the world's largest repository
      of container images with an array of content sources including container
      community developers, open source projects and independent software vendors
      (ISV) building and distributing their code in containers. Users get access
      to free public repositories for storing and sharing images or can choose
      subscription plan for private repos.

      `Docker <https://www.docker.com/>`_ provides to this project a user with a
      higher 'Docker Hub Rate Limiting', this helps us to effectively build and
      test the different deployment use cases that are supported. This means that
      all container images can be pulled and processed in a streamlined manner.

Google Cloud Platform
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. container:: twocol

   .. container:: leftside

      .. figure:: _static/supporters/gcp.svg
         :target: http://cloud.google.com

   .. container:: rightside

      `Google Cloud Platform <https://cloud.google.com/>`_ is a suite of cloud
      computing services that runs on the same infrastructure that Google uses
      internally for its end-user products, such as Google Search, Gmail, Google
      Drive, and YouTube.
      Alongside a set of management tools, it provides a series of modular
      cloud services including computing, data storage, data analytics,
      machine learning, infrastructure as a service, platform as a service,
      and serverless computing environments.

      `Google Cloud Platform <https://cloud.google.com/>`_ provides this project
      with a higher free tier to serve the CDN storage for the CI periodic and
      per pull request jobs.
      This allows the project to successfully store each job execution output
      for further review and debugging purposes. Also, to host a minimum hosted
      service to test this software platform.

..
    Backblaze
    ~~~~~~~

    .. container:: twocol

       .. container:: leftside

          .. figure:: _static/supporters/backblaze.svg
             :target: http://www.backblaze.com

       .. container:: rightside

          `Backblaze <https://www.backblaze.com/>`_ Backblaze is a pioneer
          in robust, scalable low cost cloud backup and storage services.
          Personal online backup to enterprise scale data storage solutions.

          `Backblaze <https://www.backblaze.com/>`_ contributes to this project
          with specific CI resources to store the outputs of the CI jobs.

    Red Hat
    ~~~~~~~

    .. container:: twocol

       .. container:: leftside

          .. figure:: _static/supporters/rht.svg
             :target: http://www.redhat.com

       .. container:: rightside

          `Red Hat <https://www.redhat.com/>`_ is the world's leading provider of
          enterprise open source solutions, using a community-powered approach
          to deliver high-performing Linux, cloud, container, and Kubernetes
          technologies. We help you standardize across environments,
          develop cloud-native applications, and integrate, automate, secure,
          and manage complex environments with award-winning support, training,
          and consulting services.

          Open hybrid cloud is Red Hat's recommended strategy for building,
          developing, and operating your hybrid landscape of applications,
          infrastructure, and processes. From your business-critical applications
          on Red Hat Enterprise Linux, to your container-based applications on
          Red Hat OpenShift, to all the middleware and automation in between,
          Red Hat gives you the tools you need to transform, innovate, and compete.

          `Red Hat <https://redhat.com/>`_ contributes to this project with HW resources
          to run the internal CI jobs and effectively test all the different use cases
          that are supported.

    IBM
    ~~~

    .. container:: twocol

       .. container:: leftside

          .. figure:: _static/supporters/ibm.svg
             :target: http://www.ibm.com

       .. container:: rightside

          `International Business Machines <https://www.ibm.com/>`_ (IBM), is a global
          technology company that provides hardware, software, cloud-based services
          and cognitive computing.
          Founded in 1911 following the merger of four companies in New
          York State by Charles Ranlett Flint, it was originally called
          Computing-Tabulating-Recording Company. It would be renamed to IBM in 1924.

          IBM's greatest asset is the IBMer. We believe our strength lies in the
          diversity of our employees. IBM encourages creative pursuits and passions
          outside of work, because when IBMers can explore their curiosity, it
          gives all of us a new outlook on the world and its possibilities for
          emerging tech. Together, IBM can drive progress through meaningful
          innovation and action.

          `IBM <https://www.ibm.com/>`_ contributes to this project with HW resources
          to run the internal CI jobs and effectively test all the different use cases
          that are supported.
